README.md, before:

# Cloudflare Access Group IP Updater
A Go CLI application that automatically updates your Cloudflare Access Group IP address when your public IP changes. This is useful for maintaining secure access to your resources when your IP address changes dynamically.

# Why I Built This
I developed this tool, so I can access my hosted services from multiple locations even when my dynamic IP changes, without the need to log in every time to the Cloudflare access policy to manually update the IP address. This saves time and ensures I never lose access to my services due to IP changes.

## Features

- Retrieves your current public IP address using multiple IP provider services for redundancy
- Gets your Cloudflare Access Group configuration using the Cloudflare API
- Compares your current IP with the one in your Cloudflare Access Group
- Updates the Access Group if the IP has changed
- Runs on a cron schedule you specify via environment variables
- Sends notifications when IP changes or on errors via Shoutrrr (supports Discord, Slack, Telegram, email, and more)
- Test notification feature to verify your notification setup
- HTTP health check endpoint for container monitoring
- Built with Go for efficient resource usage


## Use Cases
### Dynamic IP Management for Remote Workers
Many home internet connections use dynamic IPs that change periodically. This tool ensures team members working remotely maintain almost uninterrupted access to protected Cloudflare resources without manual IP updates.
### DevOps Infrastructure Protection
Secure your development, staging, or production environments behind Cloudflare Access while allowing authorized developers to connect from locations with changing IP addresses.
### Zero Trust Security Implementation
Implement a key part of a Zero Trust security model by maintaining accurate IP allowlists that are automatically updated, combining the convenience of IP-based filtering with the security of regularly updated access controls.
### Small Business Network Security
Perfect for small businesses or startups using residential internet connections with dynamic IPs, ensuring continuous access to protected internal tools and resources.
### Multi-Site Connectivity
For businesses with multiple locations or branch offices using non-static IPs, maintain consistent access to internal resources across all sites without manual intervention.
### Home Lab Security
Secure self-hosted services, home labs, or personal infrastructure behind Cloudflare Access while accommodating the dynamic IP allocation typical of residential internet service providers.
### API Protection
Protect your APIs by ensuring only requests from authorized locations can access them, even when your IP address changes.
### Automated Disaster Recovery
Maintain access controls during failover scenarios where traffic might be routing through different paths with different source IPs.
### VPN Exit Node Management
If you're using a VPN with rotating exit nodes, this tool ensures your Cloudflare Access groups stay updated with your current exit node IP.
### Notification System for IP Changes
Receive timely alerts when your public IP changes, providing an additional security layer to monitor potential network changes or issues.
These use cases highlight the flexibility and practical applications of your tool across different scenarios, showing its value for everyone from individual developers to organizations with complex security requirements.

## Requirements

- Go 1.24+ (for development)
- Docker (optional, for containerized deployment)
- Cloudflare account with [API access](https://developers.cloudflare.com/fundamentals/api/get-started/create-token/)
- - Required "Access: Organizations, Identity Providers, and Groups Read/Write" Check [here](https://developers.cloudflare.com/api/resources/zero_trust/subresources/access/subresources/groups/methods/list/)

## Configuration

The application is configured via environment variables:

| Environment Variable      | Description                                                                                | Required |
|---------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|
| `ACCOUNTID`               | Your Cloudflare account ID                                                                 | Yes      |
| `RULEID`                  | Your Cloudflare Access Group rule ID                                                       | Yes      |
| `CRON`                    | Cron schedule for checking and updating the IP (e.g., `*/30 * * * *` for every 30 minutes) | Yes      |
| `AUTH_TOKEN`              | Your Cloudflare API Bearer token with appropriate permissions                              | Yes      |
| `NOTIFICATION_URL`        | Shoutrrr URL for notifications (see below for examples)                                    | No       |
| `NOTIFICATION_IDENTIFIER` | A message added before the Shoutrrr Message                                                | No       |
| `TEST_NOTIFICATION`       | Set to "true" to send a test notification on startup                                       | No       |
| `HEALTH_PORT`             | Port for the health check HTTP server (default: 8080)                                      | No       |

### Notification URL Format

The `NOTIFICATION_URL` uses Shoutrrr's URL format. Here are some examples:

- Discord: `discord://token@channel`
- Telegram: `telegram://token@telegram?chats=@channel`
- Slack: `slack://token@channel`
- Email (SMTP): `smtp://username:password@host:port/?from=from@example.com&to=to@example.com`
- Microsoft Teams: `teams://token1/token2/token3`
- Pushover: `pushover://token@user/?devices=device1,device2`

For more details and examples, see the [Shoutrrr documentation](https://containrrr.dev/shoutrrr/v0.8/services/overview/).

## Getting Started

### Running Locally

1. Clone this repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/htsachakis/CloudflareAccessGroupIPUpdater
   cd CloudflareAccessGroupIPUpdater
   ```

2. Copy the example environment file and edit it with your details:
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   # Edit .env with your values
   ```

3. Build the application:
   ```bash
   go build -o cloudflare-access-group-ip-updater
   ```

4. Run the application:
   ```bash
   export $(cat .env | xargs) && ./cloudflare-access-group-ip-updater
   ```

### Environment Variables

The application requires certain environment variables to be set. There are two ways to provide these:

1. **Using an `.env` file**
   - The application will automatically load variables from a `.env` file in the same directory
   - Copy the example `.env` file and modify it with your values:
     ```bash
     cp .env.example .env
     # Edit .env with your values
     ```

2. **Setting environment variables directly**
   - You can set the required environment variables directly in your shell:
     ```bash
     export ACCOUNTID=your_cloudflare_account_id
     export RULEID=your_cloudflare_rule_id
     export CRON="*/30 * * * *"
     export AUTH_TOKEN=your_cloudflare_api_token
     ```

When using Docker Compose, the `.env` file is automatically loaded and passed to the container.

### Using Docker

1. Build the Docker image:
   ```bash
   docker build -t cloudflare-access-group-ip-updater .
   ```

2. Run the container with your environment variables:
   ```bash
   docker run -d --name cloudflare-access-group-ip-updater \
     --env-file .env \
     cloudflare-access-group-ip-updater
   ```

### Using Docker Compose

1. Copy the example `.env` file and edit it with your details:
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   # Edit .env with your values
   ```

2. Launch the service:
   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

3. Check the logs:
   ```bash
   docker-compose logs -f
   ```

4. Stop the service when needed:
   ```bash
   docker-compose down
   ```

### Prebuild Docker Compose (Recommended)

1. Create a file `docker-compose.yml` .
2. Paste in the file:
   ```yml
   services:
      cloudflare-ip-updater:
        image: ghcr.io/htsachakis/cloudflare-access-group-ip-updater:latest
        container_name: cloudflare-ip-updater
        restart: unless-stopped
        environment:
          - ACCOUNTID=your_cloudflare_account_id
          - RULEID=your_cloudflare_rule_id
          - CRON=*/30 * * * *
          - AUTH_TOKEN=your_cloudflare_api_token
          #- NOTIFICATION_URL=
          #- TEST_NOTIFICATION=true
          #- NOTIFICATION_IDENTIFIER="Server Name"
          - HEALTH_PORT=${HEALTH_PORT:-8080}
        ports:
          - "${HEALTH_PORT:-8080}:${HEALTH_PORT:-8080}"
        healthcheck:
          test: ["CMD", "wget", "--spider", "--quiet", "http://localhost:${HEALTH_PORT:-8080}/health"]
          interval: 30s
          timeout: 10s
          retries: 3
          start_period: 10s
        volumes:
          - /etc/timezone:/etc/timezone:ro
          - /etc/localtime:/etc/localtime:ro
        logging:
          driver: "json-file"
          options:
            max-size: "10m"
            max-file: "3"
   ```
3. Replace the environment variables with yours
4. Run the service:```docker-compose up -d```




## Cron Schedule Format

The CRON environment variable uses the standard cron format:

```
┌───────────── minute (0 - 59)
│ ┌───────────── hour (0 - 23)
│ │ ┌───────────── day of month (1 - 31)
│ │ │ ┌───────────── month (1 - 12)
│ │ │ │ ┌───────────── day of week (0 - 6) (Sunday to Saturday)
│ │ │ │ │                                   
│ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ │
* * * * *
```

Common examples:
- `*/5 * * * *` - Every 5 minutes
- `0 * * * *` - Every hour, at minute 0
- `0 0 * * *` - Every day at midnight

## Notifications

The application can send notifications in the following scenarios:

- When started (if TEST_NOTIFICATION is set to "true")
- When the IP is changed successfully
- When an error occurs (fetching IP, accessing Cloudflare API, etc.)
- When the application shuts down

### Notification Examples

Here are examples of notifications you'll receive:

- 🚀 Cloudflare IP Updater started—Test notification
- ✅ Initial IP set in Cloudflare Access Group: 203.0.113.1
- 🔄 IP Address Updated: 203.0.113.1 ➡️ 198.51.100.1
- ❌ Error getting current IP: connection refused
- ⏹️ Cloudflare IP Updater stopped

## License

MIT

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

Commit message:

Fixed the health check port conflict

README.md, after:

# Cloudflare Access Group IP Updater
A Go CLI application that automatically updates your Cloudflare Access Group IP address when your public IP changes. This is useful for maintaining secure access to your resources when your IP address changes dynamically.

# Why I Built This
I developed this tool, so I can access my hosted services from multiple locations even when my dynamic IP changes, without the need to log in every time to the Cloudflare access policy to manually update the IP address. This saves time and ensures I never lose access to my services due to IP changes.

## Features

- Retrieves your current public IP address using multiple IP provider services for redundancy
- Gets your Cloudflare Access Group configuration using the Cloudflare API
- Compares your current IP with the one in your Cloudflare Access Group
- Updates the Access Group if the IP has changed
- Runs on a cron schedule you specify via environment variables
- Sends notifications when IP changes or on errors via Shoutrrr (supports Discord, Slack, Telegram, email, and more)
- Test notification feature to verify your notification setup
- HTTP health check endpoint for container monitoring
- Built with Go for efficient resource usage


## Use Cases
### Dynamic IP Management for Remote Workers
Many home internet connections use dynamic IPs that change periodically. This tool ensures team members working remotely maintain almost uninterrupted access to protected Cloudflare resources without manual IP updates.
### DevOps Infrastructure Protection
Secure your development, staging, or production environments behind Cloudflare Access while allowing authorized developers to connect from locations with changing IP addresses.
### Zero Trust Security Implementation
Implement a key part of a Zero Trust security model by maintaining accurate IP allowlists that are automatically updated, combining the convenience of IP-based filtering with the security of regularly updated access controls.
### Small Business Network Security
Perfect for small businesses or startups using residential internet connections with dynamic IPs, ensuring continuous access to protected internal tools and resources.
### Multi-Site Connectivity
For businesses with multiple locations or branch offices using non-static IPs, maintain consistent access to internal resources across all sites without manual intervention.
### Home Lab Security
Secure self-hosted services, home labs, or personal infrastructure behind Cloudflare Access while accommodating the dynamic IP allocation typical of residential internet service providers.
### API Protection
Protect your APIs by ensuring only requests from authorized locations can access them, even when your IP address changes.
### Automated Disaster Recovery
Maintain access controls during failover scenarios where traffic might be routing through different paths with different source IPs.
### VPN Exit Node Management
If you're using a VPN with rotating exit nodes, this tool ensures your Cloudflare Access groups stay updated with your current exit node IP.
### Notification System for IP Changes
Receive timely alerts when your public IP changes, providing an additional security layer to monitor potential network changes or issues.
These use cases highlight the flexibility and practical applications of your tool across different scenarios, showing its value for everyone from individual developers to organizations with complex security requirements.

## Requirements

- Go 1.24+ (for development)
- Docker (optional, for containerized deployment)
- Cloudflare account with [API access](https://developers.cloudflare.com/fundamentals/api/get-started/create-token/)
- - Required "Access: Organizations, Identity Providers, and Groups Read/Write" Check [here](https://developers.cloudflare.com/api/resources/zero_trust/subresources/access/subresources/groups/methods/list/)

## Configuration

The application is configured via environment variables:

| Environment Variable      | Description                                                                                | Required |
|---------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|
| `ACCOUNTID`               | Your Cloudflare account ID                                                                 | Yes      |
| `RULEID`                  | Your Cloudflare Access Group rule ID                                                       | Yes      |
| `CRON`                    | Cron schedule for checking and updating the IP (e.g., `*/30 * * * *` for every 30 minutes) | Yes      |
| `AUTH_TOKEN`              | Your Cloudflare API Bearer token with appropriate permissions                              | Yes      |
| `NOTIFICATION_URL`        | Shoutrrr URL for notifications (see below for examples)                                    | No       |
| `NOTIFICATION_IDENTIFIER` | A message added before the Shoutrrr Message                                                | No       |
| `TEST_NOTIFICATION`       | Set to "true" to send a test notification on startup                                       | No       |

### Notification URL Format

The `NOTIFICATION_URL` uses Shoutrrr's URL format. Here are some examples:

- Discord: `discord://token@channel`
- Telegram: `telegram://token@telegram?chats=@channel`
- Slack: `slack://token@channel`
- Email (SMTP): `smtp://username:password@host:port/?from=from@example.com&to=to@example.com`
- Microsoft Teams: `teams://token1/token2/token3`
- Pushover: `pushover://token@user/?devices=device1,device2`

For more details and examples, see the [Shoutrrr documentation](https://containrrr.dev/shoutrrr/v0.8/services/overview/).

## Getting Started

### Running Locally

1. Clone this repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/htsachakis/CloudflareAccessGroupIPUpdater
   cd CloudflareAccessGroupIPUpdater
   ```

2. Copy the example environment file and edit it with your details:
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   # Edit .env with your values
   ```

3. Build the application:
   ```bash
   go build -o cloudflare-access-group-ip-updater
   ```

4. Run the application:
   ```bash
   export $(cat .env | xargs) && ./cloudflare-access-group-ip-updater
   ```

### Environment Variables

The application requires certain environment variables to be set. There are two ways to provide these:

1. **Using an `.env` file**
   - The application will automatically load variables from a `.env` file in the same directory
   - Copy the example `.env` file and modify it with your values:
     ```bash
     cp .env.example .env
     # Edit .env with your values
     ```

2. **Setting environment variables directly**
   - You can set the required environment variables directly in your shell:
     ```bash
     export ACCOUNTID=your_cloudflare_account_id
     export RULEID=your_cloudflare_rule_id
     export CRON="*/30 * * * *"
     export AUTH_TOKEN=your_cloudflare_api_token
     ```

When using Docker Compose, the `.env` file is automatically loaded and passed to the container.

### Using Docker

1. Build the Docker image:
   ```bash
   docker build -t cloudflare-access-group-ip-updater .
   ```

2. Run the container with your environment variables:
   ```bash
   docker run -d --name cloudflare-access-group-ip-updater \
     --env-file .env \
     cloudflare-access-group-ip-updater
   ```

### Using Docker Compose

1. Copy the example `.env` file and edit it with your details:
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   # Edit .env with your values
   ```

2. Launch the service:
   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

3. Check the logs:
   ```bash
   docker-compose logs -f
   ```

4. Stop the service when needed:
   ```bash
   docker-compose down
   ```

### Prebuild Docker Compose (Recommended)

1. Create a file `docker-compose.yml` .
2. Paste in the file:
   ```yml
   services:
      cloudflare-ip-updater:
        image: ghcr.io/htsachakis/cloudflare-access-group-ip-updater:latest
        container_name: cloudflare-ip-updater
        restart: unless-stopped
        environment:
          - ACCOUNTID=your_cloudflare_account_id
          - RULEID=your_cloudflare_rule_id
          - CRON=*/30 * * * *
          - AUTH_TOKEN=your_cloudflare_api_token
          #- NOTIFICATION_URL=
          #- TEST_NOTIFICATION=true
          #- NOTIFICATION_IDENTIFIER="Server Name"
        ports:
          - 8080:8080 # Optional if wanted to expose the health check server
        healthcheck:
          test: ["CMD", "wget", "--spider", "--quiet", "http://localhost:8080/health"]
          interval: 30s
          timeout: 10s
          retries: 3
          start_period: 10s
        volumes:
          - /etc/timezone:/etc/timezone:ro
          - /etc/localtime:/etc/localtime:ro
        logging:
          driver: "json-file"
          options:
            max-size: "10m"
            max-file: "3"
   ```
3. Replace the environment variables with yours
4. Run the service:```docker-compose up -d```




## Cron Schedule Format

The CRON environment variable uses the standard cron format:

```
┌───────────── minute (0 - 59)
│ ┌───────────── hour (0 - 23)
│ │ ┌───────────── day of month (1 - 31)
│ │ │ ┌───────────── month (1 - 12)
│ │ │ │ ┌───────────── day of week (0 - 6) (Sunday to Saturday)
│ │ │ │ │                                   
│ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ │
* * * * *
```

Common examples:
- `*/5 * * * *` - Every 5 minutes
- `0 * * * *` - Every hour, at minute 0
- `0 0 * * *` - Every day at midnight

## Notifications

The application can send notifications in the following scenarios:

- When started (if TEST_NOTIFICATION is set to "true")
- When the IP is changed successfully
- When an error occurs (fetching IP, accessing Cloudflare API, etc.)
- When the application shuts down

### Notification Examples

Here are examples of notifications you'll receive:

- 🚀 Cloudflare IP Updater started—Test notification
- ✅ Initial IP set in Cloudflare Access Group: 203.0.113.1
- 🔄 IP Address Updated: 203.0.113.1 ➡️ 198.51.100.1
- ❌ Error getting current IP: connection refused
- ⏹️ Cloudflare IP Updater stopped

## License

MIT

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.
